#summary How to use muparserx in your projects

= Using the library =
== Getting the latest source code ==

A stable version of muParserX is available for download at the muParser site on google code. The latest source code can be checked out from the muParser SVN repository using the following command:

*svn checkout http://muparserx.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ muparserx-read-only*

Although i never deliberately check in broken versions this is a development snapshots which may not always compile on all systems and may not pass its UNIT test without errors. Most time this does'nt mean it contains more bugs than the official release it just means i added new tests for previousely unknown bugs to the unit test.
Adding the library to your projects

This library depends on the Standard template library (STL). The problem with the STL is that every C++ compiler has its own implementation of the STL and different STL implementations are not compatible in terms of their memory layout. Since STL template classes are used in the API of muParserX I do not see a maintainable way to provide a prebuild library. Your only choice of using the library is adding its source code directly to your project. So In order to use the library you should add all files located in the "muparserx/parser" subdiretory into your own project. The library currently comes with project files for VisualStudio 2008 and a Makefile for the GNU C++ compiler but It should compile on every standard compliant C++ compiler. 